= merb_sequel

A plug-in for the Merb framework that provides support for Sequel models.

This is fork of the code in the official merb-plugins 
(http://github.com/wycats/merb-plugins) repository. I did separate repository 
and Gem to allow faster and more independent release cycle to keep up with the 
Sequel monthly releases.

Plug-in is compatible with Merb 0.9.9 and higher and Sequel 1.4.0 and 
higher including 2.x.x and <b>3.x.x</b>.

<b>Any issues please report to http://github.com/pk/merb_sequel/issues</b>.


== Install
Since version 1.0.6 I've moved gem hosting to Gemcutter. So now you need 
to install gem with:

gem install pk-merb_sequel --source http://gemcutter.org

For versions <= 1.0.5 I used GitHub:

gem install pk-merb_sequel --source http://gems.github.com


=== Merb < 1.1
Add pk-merb_sequel as a dependency to your <b>config/dependencies.rb</b>:

dependency 'pk-merb_sequel', :require_as => 'merb_sequel'

<b>Because of Merb < 1.1 ORM plugin loading mechanism you neeed to change init.rb</b>:

use_orm :sequel

to

Merb.orm = :sequel

If you don't do this Merb will complain that there is no merb_sequel gem also 
if you have merb_sequel installed it will load your system wide gem instead of
the pk-merb_sequel gem.


=== Merb >= 1.1, add it as a dependency to your <b>Gemfile</b>:
    
gem 'pk-merb_sequel', :require_as => 'merb_sequel'

Add Sequel as you ORM of choice to init.rb:

use_orm :sequel


== Compatibility

=== Ruby 1.8.7:
Sequel 2.11.0:: All pass
Sequel 2.12.0:: All pass
Sequel 3.0.0::  All pass
Sequel 3.5.0::  All pass

=== Ruby 1.9.1:
Sequel 2.11.0:: All pass except session spec failing due to Marshall issues.
Sequel 2.12.0:: All pass except session spec failing due to Marshall issues.
Sequel 3.0.0::  All pass except session spec failing due to Marshall issues.
Sequel 3.5.0::  All pass except session spec failing due to Marshall issues.

=== ActiveModel compatibility
In Merb > 1.0.13 we use ActiveModel interface for the ORM plugins. merb_sequel
now supports this for all versions of Sequel by including compatibilit layers
by default or loading active model plugin when using Sequel > 3.5.0

You can use configuration to not load compatibility layer:
Merb::Plugins.config[:merb_sequel][:load_activemodel_compatibility] = false

== RSpec transactional examples

If you want to cut significantly runtime of your test suite which is using 
Sequel you can enable transactional examples. Just add following line to 
your spec_helper.rb or any spec you want to be transactional:

    require 'merb_sequel/rspec/sequel'

Now <b>each example is wrapped in a Sequel transaction and when example finishes
Sequel::Error::Rollback is raised which cause transaction to rollback</b>.

== Connection options & Settings

Settings:

* :load_activemodel_compatibility. By default is set to true. If set to false, ActiveModelCompatibility is not loaded.

Merb Sequel plug-in uses config/database.yml for connection configuration.

Options are:

* adapter. :sqlite is assumed by default.
* database, default is "hey_dude_configure_your_database". In case of SQLite this 
  should be either :memory: or file path for SQLite.
* db_type: default is nil. Use "mssql" to connect to MSSQL using ODBC.
* encoding or charset, default is utf8.
* host. localhost is assumed by default.
* logger default is Merb.logger
* password. <b>WARNING: default password is an empty string</b>.
* socket Use socket to connect to DB. 
* username or user, default is an empty string


== Generators

After you install the plug-in, merb-gen can generate Sequel models for you:

    merb-gen model --orm=sequel Article

same with the resources

    merb-gen resource --orm=sequel Article


<b>Note that if you have specified that you use Sequel in init.rb or environment
specific init file (for instance, environments/development.rb)
via use_orm :sequel, you don't need to specify --orm option explicitly when
using merb-gen</b>.


== Contributors

Originally written by Duane Johnson (canadaduane at gmail.com).

Contributions by:
* Wayne E. Seguin
* Lance Carlson
* Jacob Dunphy
* Lori Holden
* Pavel Kunc
* e-mac
* Piotr Usewicz

Maintained by Pavel Kunc (pavel.kunc at gmail.com)
